Stringing a racquet can take up to an hour for a novice, or around twenty minutes for a skilled stringer; during professional tournament a very skilled stringer may be asked to string a racquet while the player is on court. These string jobs can take just over 10 minutes for a seasoned tournament stringer.57658.
Tennis strings are usually made up of gut, polyester or a hybrid of the two but have been known to consist of other materials including: nylon, metal, multifilament and Kevlar. Racquet tension can vary from anywhere from 30-70 lbs. Professional players tend to opt for the upper limit of the racquet tension range, however, an increasing number of recent players have1 been choosing lower 2tensions to favour power.
Badminton strings are usually made up of microfilament, but historically used to be strung with gut. Racquet tension can vary from 18-36 lbs. Professional players tend to opt for the upper limit of the racquet tension range.
Squash strings are usually made up of microfilament or gut. Racquet tension can vary from 20-30 lbs. Professional players tend to opt for the upper limit of the racquet tension range.
Drop weight stringing machines are inexpensive that use a weighted bar to achieve the desired string tension. Using only weight and simple laws of physics (torque = force x distance) they are very precise and also constant pull type of machines.[6] They are the most maintenance-free type of machines and also the most affordable.[7] As a result, these stringing machines are popular among those learning how to string a racquet or string on a casual basis. On the other hand, slow tensioning times are the main reason for stringers choosing more expensive machines.
Manual crank (lockout) stringing machines use a crank to achieve the correct tension, at which point the tension mechanism locks into place. These stringing machines allow racquets to be strung more quickly than with drop weight machines. The lockout action permits more tension loss than drop weight [8] and constant pull actions.